In this clip we're going to take a look at VPC security,
look at the different tools and features that you can use to
increase security when designing with VPCs.
So what do we put in VPCs?
The first thing that we add into a VPC is an instance.
So this instance is hosted in the VPC, we get that,
we can also choose to use network access control lists.
This is really a firewall at the subnet level that controls both the
inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.
This is stateless.
We also have the subnet that the instance is on and the subnet will
have a routing table saying what traffic is allowed in and out and
then the NACLs will control that traffic and closes to the instance
we have security groups.
Another firewall for the instance controlling inbound and outbound traffic,
but at the instance level.
So we have a couple of areas when we create a VPC that we
should consider for absolute security.
Let's look at this graphically in a different way and
when we look at the security levels, again we start with the EC2 instance,
closest to the instance is the security group being part of your account.
The security group can be modified on the fly if you decide to make
changes for the inbound/outbound access to the instance.
Next, we have the subnet, which the instance will be hosted on.
Below the subnet, really associated with the subnet,
is going to be the network access control lists that control
the inbound/outbound from the subnet level.
Now this is, again,
stateless where the security group is considered stateful and
we'll explain those terms in upcoming slides.
Next we have the host of everything, the VPC,
the software defined network that defines what you can do in this area
of AWS and you've got these options that you decide,
i.
e.
the NACLs and security group who are protecting your instance.
When we look at security groups,
they're mandatory in that when you spin up an instance it's going to
request that you create at least one security group.
So you could make it pretty weak,
you can say every computer in the world can access port 22,
but they force you to think about it.
Now we define this as stateful.
If you allow inbound, then you've allowed outbound.
So you can't just do one way.
So this is operating at the instance level and it
restricts the traffic by IP protocol,
by the service port and the source destination IP address.
So how do these operate?
Well let's take a look at the security group operation rules.
We've got inbound rules for TCP/IP port 80 from anywhere.
We've got TCP/IP port 443 from anywhere.
SSH, port 22, from a specific IP address and UDP from port 2009 from anywhere.
The security group is surrounding this instance.
This is the security that we have at this point at the VPC level.
So a security group provides allow rules, no deny rules.
So port 80 from anywhere, yep that's allowed.
Port 22 from 172.
30.
1.
200, yep we can do that.
What about port 102 from 0.
0.
0/0?
No, not defined, sorry you're not getting in.
So the rules assigned to the security group,
linked to the instance determine the access.
Again, the key concept, they're stateful.
A response to inbound traffic that's allowed is allowed to flow
outbound regardless of any outbound rules.
Now you may wonder, how many rules can I add to a security group?
Now you can have up to 50 rules for each security group.
Within the VPC you can have 100 security groups.
So let's take a look at some best practices for security groups.
And where you can get this information is from the Center of Internet Security,
and Amazon is the only cloud provider, at this point,
which has been aligned with the foundation and they've
provided some interesting benchmarks, specifically for AWS,
so certainly something to Google to get the full details.
So some of their best practices to consider,
the default security group of every VPC restricts all traffic.
So we restrict everything,
but then we poke holes into it with other security groups.
No security groups allowing ingress from everywhere to port 22 and no
security group allowing ingress from anywhere for port 3389.
So we want to ensure that we don't have holes in our security groups.
We can go much deeper than this in the real world,
highly recommend that you go over and take a look at the
best practices for securing AWS resources.
Now to keep everything nice and clean and simple,
even when it gets complicated,
one of the recommendations as well is to separate
inbound and outbound traffic rules.
Don't jumble them all together, make it nice and clean.
So I could look at a solution for a whole project.
So let's say we have a web tier,
we've got an app tier and we've got a database tier.
And we have different communications between these different tiers and
from external access outside Amazon into this tier.
So if I add my firewalls in and say, well there's going to be HTTP access,
port 80, port 443, I'm also going to do SSH,
RDP,
and I also want some on-prem access from resources
on-prem linking to resources in Amazon.
Now one other component we want to add in here is a way to do administration to
any of the boxes in any of the tiers from my administrators.
This is typically called a jump box,
which allows you to jump from this box to the
instances that are in the solution.
So I don't want everyone having access to the jump box.
In fact, if I'm not doing administration,
the jump box instance should be turned off.
So let's finish off this design.
We can say HTTP port 80, port 443 to the web tier, that kind of makes sense.
SSH or RDP to the jump box,
the engineering staff or the development staff
needing access to their resources, and I also need on-prem access,
database access, hosted at Amazon from on-prem.
So once I've whiteboarded my architecture I can then step further and say
alright I need a security group solution for the jump box.
I need a security group solution for the web tier to talk to the app
tier and the app tier to talk to the different tier.
So there's a number of considerations.
This clip we've looked at a lot of things to do with VPCs
and the different tools and features,
now let's move on to clip number B where we're explore the custom security groups and some additional VPC connectivity options.